# gophercise write ups 
Gophercise #1 Quiz

This is the first gophercise I have ever done and I had a pretty fun time doing it. I just recently took a course on the golang language, but haven’t got a lot of hands on experience so this was a nice change of pace for me. The first part was pretty straight forward and easy, the only time I got stuck was when I didn’t realize there was an extra white space for inputs in the command line, so when I tried to use the == operator to compare a correct answer and the user input, it just would not work. After a long time however I figured it out. The Second part was definitely a lot more trickier. I did not know what flags were before doing this exercise, but after watching a few videos on the subject I was able to write the code for it. The hardest part was definitely the concurrency, and trying to figure out how I could exit the program when the timer was finished. Besides a bit of asynchronous program in the android world, I did not have much experience with “muliti-threaded” programming. I did learn about this in my other course but it was still very tricky and took me a couple of hours to get it to finally work.


Gophercise #2 URL shortener 

This gophercise was definitely harder then the last one because I had no prior experiences with any of the concepts in the exercises. So for a good couple of days I read a book on golang web programming and stopped reading when I felt that I was in a good place to begin the exercise. I read an article on YAML and golang which helped a lot in this exercise. I created two functions that do the actual handling, one for YAML and one for the map. I also then made two functions that creates a YAML and a map handler. I also made a function for creating a default mux, and one reading the YAML file and returning it in bytes. Main function takes in a path to YAML string, gets it bytes and creates a YAML handler which maps the path to the specific URL and returns default handler if it does not exist. The default handler is a pointer to a map handler which contains 3 maps to strings. Overall although this exercise took me a pretty long time to finish I am very glad I stuck through because I learned so much.


Gophercise #3 Choose Your Own Adventures

This was probably my favorite gophercise exercise so far due to the fact that I like the concept of choose your own adventure games a lot and watched Bandersnatch about a week ago. I created three separate files, one for the html template, one for json, and the last one for the main go file. I created three structs a storyHandler, storyChapter and storyOption. My ServeHttp function automatically sends user to intro page if the URL path equaled ‘/’, else it added it searched for anything after the slash in my storyChapters map inside the storyHandler struct and stored it in a storyChapter variable which was then passed through the execute template.Execute function. I still had to read a lot of documentation, but because of this I learned a lot more about templates and handlers, although my html and css skills definitely need a lot more work!

